Bible translations
in common languages
started to spread
across Europe in the 1500’s,
but it took much longer
for more remote places
to receive the Bible.
It was in 1766
that the complete Greek Scriptures,
or New Testament,
was first published in Greenlandic
—a language spoken today
by about 50,000 people.
In August of last year,
I had the privilege of serving
a regional convention in Greenland,
which is overseen
by the Scandinavia branch.
Greenland is the neighbor
to the north of Newfoundland,
where I pioneered for 11 years.
So it was a wonderful experience
to go there and meet our brothers.
Some 400 brothers and sisters
traveled at their own expense
from all over Scandinavia to support
the convention in Greenland.
Although Greenland is a land
covered by large ice caps,
there are many warm hearts
yearning for the truth.
I think that Jesus had Greenland in mind
when he spoke about preaching
to the most distant part of the earth.
My name is Arne Mattsson.
My wife, Karin, and I have lived
in Greenland for more than 34 years.
We have traveled all over the country
preaching about God’s Kingdom,
and we have had
some fantastic experiences.
In the 1950’s, two young special pioneers
came to Greenland
as the first publishers.
They traveled by boat
from town to town
carrying just tents
and simple equipment.
They had to endure
the cold weather,
face resistance
from the local ministers,
and even fight with sledge dogs
that took their food.
But they laid the groundwork
for the great effort
that has been made
to preach to all in this country.
In the 1960’s and ’70’s,
many families
moved here from Denmark
to help with the preaching work.
I remember how I,
as a teenager in 1971,
moved from Denmark
to Greenland with my family.
It was not easy
to learn the language,
but the brothers and sisters
from Denmark did their best,
and it had a good effect
on the territory.
In 1973, The Watchtower began
to be published in Greenlandic.
Just to pronounce the name,
Napassuliak’ Alapernaerssuivfik,
was a challenge.
But it has been a popular magazine
in Greenland ever since.
Once, we met a couple
who for many years
had received copies of The Watchtower
when publishers visited their settlement.
They told us that they often felt depressed
when they woke up in the morning,
but when they read the magazine,
they felt better.
And they would read
the same copies over and over again.
When the temperature drops
and the snow falls,
the landscape gets covered
by a beautiful white blanket for half a year,
so the publishers
make good use of the summer.
Some towns and settlements
only seldom receive a witness.
There are no roads between the towns,
but we reach isolated areas by boat.
When someone shows interest
in our message,
the contact
is maintained by phone.
Many have great respect for the Bible,
and so My Book of Bible Stories
has found its way into many, many homes.
Over a period of 24 years,
Karin and I have sailed so much
that it equals a trip
twice around the globe.
This has cost a lot of effort and money,
but with Jehovah’s blessing,
we have been able
to continue year after year
preaching to the distant parts
of Greenland.
The preaching work here
is a great experience.
People are attentive and kind.
But it took a long time
before the first native Greenlander
was baptized
—actually 18 years of zealous preaching.
Today, there are
more than 150 publishers
in 5 congregations.
Jehovah has really blessed
the work that has been done here
for more than 60 years.
In August 2016,
a very special convention
was held in the capital of Nuuk.
Brothers and sisters
from all over Scandinavia
traveled all the way
to attend the convention.
We were very encouraged
by the visit of a member
of the Governing Body,
Brother Mark Sanderson,
who gave us
some faith-strengthening talks.
I think it’s a great privilege
to be able to understand the truth.
It’s amazing that Jehovah
gave his attention
to an insignificant human like me.
When I started to follow
the Bible’s unique teachings
and principles,
I clearly understood
how it would benefit my own life.
After this convention,
even though we live in small towns
far away
from the rest of the world,
we feel closer than ever before
to the worldwide brotherhood.
The peak attendance
at the convention was 614
—the largest ever in Greenland.
Our brothers
from other parts of Scandinavia
who attended
the convention also took part
in a campaign
inviting interested ones.
In only two hours,
the whole capital city of Nuuk
was covered.
It was a wonderful witness!